---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: “Meteor Gotchas”
date: 2017-03-09
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Meteor
---
Software developers usually encounter tasks ranging from firmware development to web development as there are many tools available to make application development more streamlined, efficient, and generally less painless. Specifically, when designing web applications, there are two methods: coding from scratch with raw HTML and CSS or using a framework. Typically, frameworks will enable you to speed up development through pre-loaded features which take care of the pixels and margins thus enabling you to work on implementing features instead. One popular web framework is Meteor which is an open source platform for web, mobile and desktop users. But as always, when learning a new framework or programming language, there are always learning curves.

Initially, when developing utilizing Meteor, the general method and project structure of the framework may baffle first time users. Meteor is based on Javascript as it comes with its own database and functionality to deploy using its own free Meteor server. In contrast to other frameworks such as Django, Meteor’s project structure was especially confusing as there are three various versions of accepted project structures. In addition, the framework stresses the use of import and export of packages into the project instead of written files. Moreover, code can be further divided into client and server side specific actions which generally increases the complexity and beginner-friendly nature of the language. Initially, when creating projects, I was forcibly attempting to navigate around this heavily enforced structure to improve understanding and speed up development. But through frustrations, I was eventually forced to conform to the complex structure. From there, development and productivity increased. This initial experience with Meteor was confusing as it was a slope in the learning curve.

Another problem commonly encountered while using Meteor as the web development framework involves the dispersed variable names and references across many files. Files must be linked within each subdirectory in addition to links within the main client and server files. In addition, the utilization of handlebar syntax to dynamically display content through the use of helper functions and template control can definitely stump a first time user. Personally, the only method through this obstacle was to manually trace through each variable, adapt, and conform to the framework’s unique syntax. Although, this type of syntax confusion is present when learning any new framework, the definite method of learning is by putting the time into the project. To my knowledge, there are no shortcuts to instantly learning this new syntax. Through frustrations, confusion, and repeated thought of switching to a new framework, learning Meteor was worthwhile in the end. For software developers, web frameworks are a blessing as they take care of the backend complexities and enables speedily development. 

